hi I'm Jay steel I'm a holistic
nutritionist and the author of the vegan
cookbook get it right today we're going
to make a green drink it's something
that's not even in my cookbook but I
like to make it most days because I just
enjoy it the way you know other people
enjoy coffee or whatever I'm not so much
of a coffee drinker but this is
something that I enjoy once or twice a
day we're going to using some juices and
some Green powders shaking it all up
making something tasty don't be turned
off by the color that we're going to be
producing of the drink because it
actually is quite tasty and and it might
be for some people maybe it's a bit of
an earthy taste it's a little acquired
but it's actually the juice makes it
taste really nice and sweet and it's
probably cheaper than going out and
buying expensive drinks and actually you
can make it more high-quality doing it
at home so first I'm going to start with
a jar I say this a lot but I love
collecting glass jars because they're
really useful all over my kitchen this
one probably used to have tahini in it
or not better or something like that and
it's got a nice tight fitting lid which
makes it good for shaken up later on and
also good for transporting sometimes
I'll make a juice first thing in the
morning then throw it in my bag and then
drink it a few hours later when I want
or I might just drink this juice first
thing in the morning when I get home
from work that kind of thing so we're
going to start with some blue braid
juice that's going to give us a nice
color base and a nice flavor straight up
blueberry juice can be kind of expensive
so I don't use a whole lot of it maybe
about a centimeter or so in the bottom
of the glass jar this jar for the record
is probably like 300 milliliters or so
it's just over a cup by a bit so we'll
just use some blueberry juice and then
the rest i'm going to use apple juice if
you buy a juice that's like blueberry
blend like ten percent blue brain a
bunch of other things and you can just
fill it right up like a third or a half
way up the glass so poor in a bit of
apple juice I make sure that I always
get organic apple juice to avoid any
sides are herbicides that might have
been sprayed on the apples and this
juice actually comes from a local farm
so depending on your bio region i live
in ontario when and there's an abundance
of apples so i can always find good
organic apple juice around this not
super expensive so that's about half the
jar maybe a little bit less but that's
what a good quantity and then we're
going to put in the first green powder
so this is just kind of like a general
green powder there are lots of different
kinds on the market with lots of
different ranges and quality actually
this one is organic and it also has some
probiotics in it which is nice and it's
straight up fruits and veg so you can
buy ones that have like grass fillers
and stuff like that and i would suggest
avoiding those because it's not really
worth it this one does feel kind of
steep in price when you buy it all at
once but it adds averages out to like a
dollar a dollar fifty per serving and
that's kind of like going out for coffee
or maybe even cheaper they went out for
coffee so I don't think it's that bad
and it's so good for you greening
powders can definitely help to balance
your blood sugar levels and also just up
the amount of good things that you're
getting from veggies in your day so I
put in a tablespoon of the green powder
and seal that up if you want to put
probiotics in here like if you have
probiotic powder so I'm like that like
acidophilus powder you can do that to
this one has some probiotics in it and
then the other green powder I put in is
a specific um this is one of the most
amazing foods on earth it's called
spirulina I would say it's essential for
pretty much everyone some people just
say for vegetarians and vegans raw
foodists but I think everyone should be
consuming this stuff it's a great source
of beta-carotene antioxidants that kind
of thing as well as being a good source
of b12 and a lot of people especially
vegans are interested in getting enough
b12 so i put in a teaspoon maybe even a
rounded teaspoon of spirulina just knock
that in and you know you might want to
shop around for different brands see
what you can find that you like but
they're similar or they're all pretty
similar and you can get organic or
conventional but I don't find out two
different and price so big organic and
then actually at this point you might
choose to throw in some trace mineral
drops which is another way to get
supplements that you need in your diet
um if you're not maybe getting enough
minerals these are kind of an easy way
to absorb minerals it's better than
taking a tablet or something like that
so I just might put a few drops in there
and I'm going to put in some water you
know there are different kinds of water
you can just use tap water if you want
you can get really fancy sheshe water
you can get really expensive filters
that will give you great quality water
the filter that we use in my house here
is a carbon block filter which is
something that I talked about in my book
it's kind of the the cheapest filter
that you can get that's good quality
it's better quality than a like a Brita
or something like that and I just fill
up a jug and then keep it on the counter
because I don't like my water cold there
like it i'm dr. so pour in some of this
glug glug glug right up to the top see
now a lot of measuring mostly just
eyeballing and will just screw on the
lid make sure it's nice and tight give
it a good shake you really want to shake
it well because it's kind of gross if
you get these little clumps of spirulina
or some sort of green powder in there
and they kind of like pop in your mouth
in a powdery way so you don't want that
so what you do want is a lovely smooth
rich liquid and just going to give it a
good shake it's probably good now um you
also shake it up a bit if you travel
around with it for a few hours and it
goes in your backpack with you then
it'll shake up a bit to bust up any
that are in there so now we've got this
nice green drink it's a really rich
color don't be deterred like I said and
drink up mmm tasty sometimes I get a
little bit on the bridge my nose I'm
drinking for the most part looks at well
thanks
you